## EDA and Revised Project Statement
### Description of the data

In this project, we use "review" (shape: 4736897 X 9), "business" (shape: 156639 X 101)  and "user" (shape: 1183362 X 22) from [Yelp academic dataset](https://www.yelp.com/dataset/challenge). Each row in "review" specifies a review that a user makes on a restaurant (or a barbershop), including date, comment ("text") and rating ("stars"), as well as the number of votes received on this review ("funny", "useful" or "cool"). "Business" contains information on restaurants and barbershops appearing in "review", including typical attributes defining a restaurant (or a barbershop), open hours, geographic information and average ratings. There are a lot of missing values in "business", mostly caused by the missing of attribute descriptions. "User" contains information on users, including profile summaries, social networks on yelp and average ratings. "Review", "business" and "user" are linked together through "user\_id" and "business\_id".

To wrangle data for EDA and predictive modeling, we first checked and cleaned duplicate reviews (same user reviews same business). We identified 1 case of duplicates involving 2 reviews; we simply dropped one of them since the ratings happen to be the same. Then we dropped barbershops and closed restaurants (~16.4% of rows in "business"), and kept reviews and users associated with remaining restaurants. Finally, we converted "user\_id" and "business\_id" to integers to save space and speed up computations. We checked the number of restaurants in each city (there are 980 cities in the remaining dataset), and sampled a small set by extracting data associated with restaurants in a medium-size city (we chose Champaign, which contains 878 opened restaurants, here) for the debugging of EDA and predictive modeling codes.

To build a recommender system, we can do collaborative filtering or content filtering. To perform collaborative filtering, we only need restaurant ratings from each user, which we can obtain by keeping 3 columns, i.e., "user\_id", "business\_id" and "stars", in "review". Content filtering requires a profile for each user or each restaurants, which characterizes its nature; we can obtain the required data by merging "review" with "user" and "business" through "user\_id" and "business\_id" respectively.

### Noteworthy findings of the EDA



### Revised project statement

Herein, we propose to construct a recommender system for restaurants using an ensemble mothod, which combines the prediction of several base estimators, including baseline estimators, collaborative filtering estimators, and content filtering estimators.

We would first construct base estimators and compare their performance (including fitting time and RMSE) on a small dataset and a reasonably large dataset. We would construct 2 baseline estimators through mean estimation and Ridge regression, respectively. For collaborative filtering estimators, we would focus on latent factor models and test some efficient neighborhood methods; specifically, we would test sigular-value decomposition through alternating least squares ([SVD-ALS](https://datajobs.com/data-science-repo/Recommender-Systems-%5BNetflix%5D.pdf)), sigular-value decomposition through stochastic gradient descent ([SVD-SGD](http://papers.nips.cc/paper/3208-probabilistic-matrix-factorization.pdf)), non-negative matrix factorization ([NMF](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6748996)), [slope one](https://arxiv.org/pdf/cs/0702144.pdf) and [co-clustering](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.113.6458&rep=rep1&type=pdf). For content filtering methods, we would first merge 3 tables and keep presumably useful features according to EDA results; we would test some basic regression and classification algorithms, such as Ridge regression, logistic regression and decision trees.

After benchmarking these base estimators, we would explore strategies of building an ensemble estimator, such as the choice of base estimators and the way of performing weighted average.

Finally, we would build a recommender system that could recommend restaurants to users according to the predicted ratings. We would decide the choice of estimators based on their performance (characterized by RMSE), fitting time, prediction time and feasibility of incremental learning.